Own for is connecting right.
Connecting well, and obviously being more
than just a, Tinder's like we're here
for ourselves, but here for community.
And so that, just that atmosphere
of community during this
time, Uh, I love seeing that.
So keep that up.
Um, continue to encourage one another.
It's valuable.
It's beneficial to each one of us.
I'm so excited to jump
back into the word today.
We will be in first Timothy chapter
four, we'll be starting in verse 11 to.
And we've been walking through the book of
first Timothy, uh, for most of this year.
Um, it actually be,
fast-tracking here pretty quick.
We'll be done with chapter four today.
I think next week there's a chance
we cover all of chapter five, cause
it kinda just crunches together.
Um, but we're been learning a lot through
this book and we chose to the book
of first Timothy as a church because
it's really teaching us a lot about.
It's teaching us a lot about a young
church and how to protect the church
from, uh, being led away from the
faith and making sure that we're
prioritizing growing in Christ.
And so last week we
learned a lot of things.
I'm gonna kind of catch up on that,
but I love being able to start off
each week, asking questions, getting
you guys engaged, uh, kind of drawing
you into what, where I believe that
Paul's leading us in this message.
And so I want to ask this question.
Have any of you ever had a parent.
We're a boss.
Maybe it's a leader, somebody that's
over, you tell you one thing, but
then do the complete opposite anybody.
Right.
That if you haven't had that, I would
be surprised because typically what we
find, and again, I'm a parent too, so
I've probably done it too is don't do
this, but don't do that or do whatever.
Then they do that.
So, so somebody give me a couple examples.
What is somebody told you not to
do or somebody told you to do?
And then they went off and
did whatever they wanted.
What's what's a couple of things.
Yes.
Now I do that as a parent.
You can't have candy after
nine o'clock kids are.
Yeah, go ahead.
That's great.
Well, what do you got?
Oh, You don't ever do that.
That is a true fact.
I've been there for that.
So we, we know those examples, right?
I think we could keep going all day long.
And some of the things I think about
is, you know, as, as a, as a parent,
a lot of times I remember like don't
cuss, don't smoke, don't drink.
Right?
Those are easy ones.
Uh, I also you'll see even parents
to say this, Hey, you go to church.
I remember this being a
part of a student ministry.
And so many parents would drop off their
kids and say, Hey, you need to be in.
And, but they wouldn't go to church.
Uh, then, then, then let's get
to the bosses side of things
or leadership side of things.
Right.
Um, here's a couple of things I've
heard is, Hey, don't be on your
phone during work time yet your
boss is always on their phone.
Right?
Here's the other one.
Don't be.
Show up on time, but I'm not
going to show up on time.
Right.
So we all know that, right?
So a lot of times as parents, or
even as leaders or bosses, right.
We, maybe they say one thing
and then they do another.
And so one of the things, as Christians,
as Christ, followers, as people who
represent Christ, it's important
that what we say, we follow up in
our actions that we don't just hold a
standard for someone or challenge them.
Uh, but then do the opposite.
And so I know that it's
difficult to follow leaders
or parents who do this things.
We all know we make mistakes.
And so some of you may
be like, Hey, that's me.
So this isn't here to like bash you,
but it's here to realize, Hey, we
really understand the importance
as parents, as leaders, or even as
followers of Jesus, how important it
is to not just say one thing and doing
the opposite, but to actually say one.
And then followed up with
our actions in our life.
And so today we're going
to learn the apostle.
Paul is the one that wrote this letter
to Timothy his true son in the faith.
Right.
He's trying to encourage him.
And really today we're going to
learn, this is how we should set the
example for other believers, right.
To help them follow Jesus and to
help us in our faith as well, to
make sure that we're growing in.
And so just to kind of catch
everybody up just last week, I'm
just gonna that's as far back.
So I'm going to go is the last week
and the beginning of chapter four
for Paul addressed some specific
things about false teachers, right?
False teachers are people who are trying
to teach something that is not biblical,
something that is not Christ centered.
And so a couple of things to
these false teachers were teaching
these believers in the church.
Remember these false
teachers were in the church.
They were trying to teach them
to abstain from certain foods
and also to abstain from.
And so what we learned is that,
uh, God does not say that neither
again, those things could be
valuable to not eat certain foods.
If that's what you have to do for your
health concerns, or maybe even the
Bible talks about it being valuable
to not marry, because you can dedicate
yourself to more to the, to the Lord.
But it's not those things that
justify you before the Lord.
And so these leaders were trying
to do something, what we call
as Jesus plus something, right.
Jesus plus works.
And so then he challenged Timothy
and he challenged us to be.
So not only pointing out
these false teachers, right?
Because we'll be good servants, but
to be nourished by the word so that
we can nourish other people in that
word, nourish is basically we need
to be built up in the word so that we
have something to give back to others.
And he said this, he says that
we need to train and godly.
Right.
Rather than physical training, which
has as little value we should train and
godliness and godliness is just being
more Christ, like be more like Jesus
working and growing in our faith to be
more like Jesus and focusing more of
our time on that than on worldly things.
So that's what we talked about last week.
And so this week is going to kind
of be a continuation of that thought
as this training in godliness is
not only beneficial for us, but
it's beneficial for those around us.
When it comes to our relationships
with Christ, we don't grow in
relationships with Christ just to
get to know Christ better ourselves.
But in the process of doing that,
we influence those around us.
And that, that to me is one of the
biggest emphasis that I think when
we, when we lack growing in our
faith, it's not only affecting you.
And again, I think that, that
we should strive for that, but
it's affecting those around us.
And so Paul's speaking directly
to Timothy, which would be a
leader or a pastor in the church.
And so he is specifically talking to
leaders in the church, but we know
this, every one of us in this room is
a leader in some area of your life.
You may say now, I'm not a
boss where you may be a parent.
So you're leading your home.
Well, you may be a student.
Uh, I'm not a boss.
You're leading the kids
that are younger than you.
The kids that are around and
you're making an influence.
So in some form, everybody in this room
is leading someone we're influencing.
So leadership is influence.
We're leading someone.
So this text speaks directly to us.
And here's the other thing Paul's directly
speaking to Timothy, a leader in the.
To teach others this.
So he's teaching Timothy first
and then Timothy supposed to
take this and teach the church.
So if you want to listen to this text and
go, oh, but he's just speaking to Timothy.
The truth is he's.
To the church as well and to us.
So I hope that you lean in today
and see how we can learn that we
need to set the example, right?
Not only by our word,
but also by modeling it.
So let's jump into the text, read it so
that we can kind of get on the same page.
And so we are, again in first Timothy
chapter four, verse 11, it says
command and teach these things again,
speaking directly to Timothy from
Paul command and teach these things.
Don't let anyone despise you.
But set an example for the
believers in speech and in conduct
and love and faith and impurity.
Until I come give attention to the
public reading exportation and teaching
don't neglect, the gift that is in you,
Timothy, it was given to you through
prophesy with the laying on of hands
by the council of the elders practice.
These things be committed to them so
that your progress may be evident.
Pay close attention to your life,
your teaching, and persevering these
things for in doing this, you will
say both yourself and your hearers.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus.
We are praying Lord that today.
Uh, Lord, that you speak through me,
Lord, that you speak through your word
and that you open each one of our hearts
and minds, including my own Lord, help us.
Not leave here today without hearing
from your word and applying it to our
lives Lord and beginning to see how you
want to grow us in our face so that we
can help others in their faith as well.
Lord.
So we pray all this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So the first thing we see
Paul addressing is by helping.
Ourself we're actually helping others.
And so he says this, you know, at the
beginning command and teach these things.
So what things is he talking about?
He's talking about the things that we
dealt with last week in verses six through
10, he's saying command and teach these
things that we are to live godly lives.
But I asked this question last week and
I wanted to bring this question up again.
I asked in the room and the
majority of you raise your hand.
So I'm not asking you to raise
your hands again, but I ask this
question, how many of you would like
to be a part of helping someone else
grow in their faith spiritually?
You know, and many of
you raised your hands.
And I said, how many of you want to not
only help them grow spiritual, but you
really want to help them not even fall
into some of the traps of the world
that draws them away from the Lord.
And, and you're like, yes,
I want to be a part of that.
I said, The Lord has a word for us.
And I think he, the Lord is
going to continue that right.
The greatest way to help other
people grow in their faith is
to pursue godliness ourselves.
Uh, I've shared this way too many times.
I'm going to share it again.
Every single time you get on the plane
and they talk about, if we lose air
in the cabin, mass will drop down,
put yours on first, before you put
someone else's on the only way that
we can help other people grow in
their faith to live more like Christ.
Is to be fed ourselves and
to, to live it out ourselves.
And so when we talk about this last
week, we talked about living godly lives.
Again, Christ-like lives training and
godliness, but here's the challenge.
We will not drift towards godliness.
It's going to take pursuit.
And that's why he says to train.
And whenever I think about training,
I think about my kids in soccer.
I actually coach a group of eight
and nine year olds yesterday.
I really was seeking the Lord
because we had a tough game.
I thought the rest were wrong.
And I thought there was a lot of other
things wrong, but the Lord convicted
me not to be rude, but nevertheless,
these kids here's usually what happens.
Practices on Tuesdays.
A lot of kids don't like
to show up to practice.
A lot of the kids don't
like to run a practice.
A lot of the kids don't like
practice the game time coach.
I want to play.
I want to win the game and
they're upset when they don't win.
Well, here's what happens
is a lot of times games are.
At practice.
If you guys know the legend,
John wooden, John wooden used to
coach a team, I think was UCLA.
And then when so many championships
and he says this, I enjoy
practice more than games.
He said, somebody asked him the
question, why he said, because
games are won at practice.
He says, if we do everything right
in practice, whatever the outcome
of the game winner lose, we've
done everything we can to win.
So I'm not trying to be worldly with this.
I'm trying to bring this
back to the word of God.
If we go back to this question,
do you want to help other
people grow in their faith?
Do you want to grow in your.
Well, it starts with
training and godliness.
It means learning more about who God
is and beginning to grow in our faith.
So we have to help others
by helping ourselves first.
So every day, if we want to help
others go into the faith, what are
we doing to prepare ourselves for it?
How are we pursuing godliness?
Here's the truth.
We live what we believe, not what we say.
I'm going to say this again.
We live what we believe, not what.
So today you're saying, Hey,
I want to pursue godliness.
I want to help others grow in their faith.
Then back that up with how you did it.
And this is the cool part we're
gonna learn from this today.
Timothy got challenged on
how to begin to do that.
And that's what we're going
to see here in verse 11.
So Paul says command and teach these
things from verses six through 10,
how to train in godliness and not
spend so much time on worldly things,
but he says in order to command
and teach these things effective.
You need to set the example for the
believers and you'll see this in
verse 12, he says, don't let anyone
despise your youth, but set an
example for the believers in speech
conduct and love and faith and purity.
He speaking directly to Paul and
Timothy, who was young, right?
Many believed that they were
probably, he was in his thirties.
So here's another question I want to ask
anybody ever led something where people
really didn't trust you to lead it?
Well, they began to question you.
Begin to think you couldn't lead.
Well, anybody ever tried to lead
something and just didn't go well, good.
Okay.
There's a couple of you, right?
So you're trying to lead.
And many of those around
you didn't trust you.
Question is how did you respond?
So how did you respond to if you've
led something and people didn't
trust you, how did you respond?
Did you step into the play?
Did you keep going or did you
give up anybody want to share?
Okay.
Well, here's what typically happens.
We either give up.
We either push through, right.
Or we get angry, but here's what
Paul's saying, rather than trying to
defend yourself, get angry or give up.
Here's what I'm going
to challenge you to do.
Timothy, your greatest defense
Timothy is to prove it.
Anybody ever played pig before
the game of pig basketball, why do
you have to do on the third shot?
Now?
This is the way I play.
What do you have to do on the third shot?
If you make the third shot, if
you basically, if you're going
to make them get a G, they miss.
Oh, so I was going to say
my way I played differently.
So this is where I
probably got to clarify.
So typically how I would play is if
we're I just made a shot and they
missed it, and that means they're
going to get G they say, prove it.
So on that G I have to make it
again, which means I have to
prove that I can hit that shot.
So my analogy totally went out the window
because all of us don't play pig the
same, but this is how fun things happen.
So drawing back into what, what Paul is
challenging Timothy is to gain confidence
and the people you're leading, prove it
with your character, with how you live.
And here's the important part.
I want to clarify this.
Paul's not saying prove it to
God, God, our loves Timothy.
God already trusts Timothy
with leadership, but the people
around him don't trust him
yet because of his young age.
So when we are living our lifestyle
for Christ, sometimes we have
to prove our lives, meaning
our, our true belief in Christ.
So here's what did Paul
challenge Timothy to prove?
Right?
He says this to set an example in speech.
He says our words, basically,
we're talking about the speech.
Our words should always
be loving and honest.
Ephesians four 15 says speaking the truth
and love by being encouraging by speaking
the truth of God by being consistent.
So in our speeches, it's
understanding that our, what
we say influences other people.
So for Timothy, what he said in the
church was important, but I love
how he says speech and then conduct.
They work together because what we say.
It means nothing.
Go back to the question as the
beginning, what we say means nothing,
unless we back it up with our conduct.
Amen.
Is that true?
Right.
We can say anything all day.
So he says by the conduct was, I mean,
walk the way you talk back up your
speech live lives that are controlled
by the word of God and the truth of God.
And Paul actually writes this
in first in Titus, one 16.
He says they claim to know God,
but they deny him by their works.
They are detestable disobedient
and unfit for any good work.
So they weren't following up what
they said with what, how they lived.
But then he says, okay, set an example.
You know, what they, anybody ever like
led you or challenged you, but seemed like
you were just upon and their little scheme
of getting things accomplished anybody.
Like you were just, they
didn't care about you.
It just seemed like they
want you to get a task done.
This is where speech is great.
Now your conduct matches up.
Meaning like you're walking
in, you're living out your
you're saying right things.
You're doing the right things,
but you have no heart in it.
You truly aren't sincere.
When you're leading the people.
So it's just this, this idea.
When I think about, if, if Paul speaking
directly to me again, I'm a pastor
it's like seriously challenging you
guys to grow in your faith and acting
like, I don't care anything about you.
Hey, you need to live this out
and I'm living it out, but I
don't care anything about you.
Right.
That's where he's challenging.
Timothy, be affectionate, be
charitable is another word, right.
Showing them that you care.
And then he says in faith, And faith is
actually trusting God with your life and
sharing how God is moving in your life.
Right?
Faith means you believe
God for bigger things.
So you're modeling it.
And then you're sharing
testimonies when God.
I got the opportunity to
share a great testimony.
I hear with the parking crew, because
we've been praying for God to move
for us, to be able to get our house
and interest rates have been going up.
And I'm like, how are
you going to do this God?
Well, this last week, I think there's
a good chance in the next two weeks
to a T how we can afford this thing.
It's going to work out perfectly like
to the number and that's how we've
been playing for the last two years.
I don't know how it's supposed to happen.
But in the moment we were trusting
God, and then God's starting to
show up and guess what I'm doing?
I'm sharing testimony.
God is faithful.
God is good.
And, and we, we forget sometimes to be
fate, have faith, and then to share that
because those testimonies are powerful.
And so modeling, taking steps of faith and
sharing those testaments are important.
And mark Batterson heard this
quote the other day and it
just, it really challenged me.
He said, fear is letting your
circumstances come between you
and God, but here's what faith is.
Faith is letting God get between
you and your circumstances.
It's understanding that God is in
control, not fear, not anything else.
So he said model.
Your faithfulness.
And then the last one he
said, is that your purity?
Right?
He says, set an example in purity.
What does this mean?
Keeping ourselves pure
in mind, heart and body.
It means avoiding sin.
Does this mean we're going to be perfect?
No, we know apart from Christ, we can't be
perfect, but as we pursue Christ, our life
will be sin less or more, less sinful.
That makes sense.
And so we're modeling these things
so that we can set a good example.
That's what he's challenging.
Timothy and imperfection.
No.
But actually out of faithfulness
and out of love and out of
conduct in speech and purity.
So he shares these things with
Timothy and he shares them with
us to help us set this example so
that when we are leading people.
And so you're saying
again, who am I leading?
You may, um, be a mother at home.
You're leading your kids.
You may be in a company and you
may be the lowest on the totem
pole, but you're still a leader
because you're setting an example.
You may be at the gas station.
You may be at a dance competition.
You may be at 48.
I don't care where you are.
You may be at school, but you're
setting an example for those around you.
And if you'll pursue to live a life with
this conduct, not to gain please from God,
but to really show God to other people,
to show who Christ is to other people.
This is what happens is when we begin
to live this way, the people that
are struggling with their faith,
who Jesus is, and you may be in
this room, you may be struggling.
Who is Jesus?
Why should I give my life to.
I hope today, you'll see
this, that we are a church.
We are a group of people that shines
the light of Christ to other people
that we love, that we care that we, we
are, obviously we back up what we say.
If we truly say we care for you, we
actually follow up and care for you.
Right?
We want to be that church.
And so, because we've experienced
Jesus, his saving grace, we pursue
godliness because it benefits
us of God's promises today.
And he said this last week, and to the.
But also in the pursuit of becoming
more like Christ, we set the example
for others who may be skeptical young
in their faith so that they will one day
accept Christ or grow in their faith.
So that is where Paul starts off.
Right.
Challenging Timothy to set this example,
but now he's going to transition.
He says, okay, that's your role?
Timothy now shared these
things with the church.
These things with the church.
What should you do together as the church?
What should you prioritize as the church
to help other people pursue godliness?
Again, godliness is just
being more like Christ.
Why is it beneficial to be more like
Christ because Christ changed the world
and Christ influenced people by showing
grace and mercy and giving us a hope.
And if we can model that to other.
Man, we can change the world.
So how can we help other
people pursue godliness?
Here's what he says in verse 13, he
says, until I come and this is Paul
saying, until I come see you church,
he says, give your attention to public
reading expectations and teaching.
So prioritize the word.
Now that sounds simple, right?
I mean, I don't know many churches that.
Preach the word on Sunday mornings,
but I think there's more to this.
He says the public reading and
Isaiah 55, 10 through 11 says
this, and I think it's important.
We hear this.
He says this.
He says for just as the rain and the
snow fall from heaven and do not return
there without saturating the earth
and making it germinate and sprout and
providing seed to sow and food to eat.
So my word that comes from my
mouth will not return empty, but
it will accomplish what I please
and prosper and what I send it.
So by the public reading of the
word, God is speaking to us.
And here's what he promises.
I love when God's word is clear, he
promises that word will not return void.
So when we come in as a group,
we're going to prioritize the
word, but here's the thing.
Don't starve yourself.
Last week, we talked
about the word nourished.
Don't starve yourself by waiting
every Sunday to have a mil.
Does that make sense?
Cause I'll know this.
If we're talking about real food,
I won't wait four hours before.
But sometimes the word we'll
wait a week to have it right.
I mean, you guys know this.
You're probably a lot like me at
times we get busy and we don't see
that the word has beneficial, but God
clearly says the word has beneficial.
So I encourage you in this
feed on the word daily, right.
So that God can teach you.
He can grow you in.
And so worn where's B said this, he says
a person who is not growing is actually
going backwards for it is impossible
to stand still in the Christian life.
The word of God grows us in our faith.
So Paul says to Timothy
prioritize that in the church.
And he says, not only the public
reading, but he says also exercise.
And teaching.
And so that's what we're doing today.
Expectation is the
encouragement in the word.
It's understanding the word better, right?
Just not the reading of it,
but understanding it and then
applying it to our lives.
So that's what we're doing today.
And we do that not only on Sundays, we
do that on our Wednesday night inspire
groups when we meet on Wednesday nights
and here's this to invite to you.
If you're not an, an inspire group,
I'd love for you to be in part of one.
We have two that go on one in Middletown,
one here, usually here at pathway or
at our home in Fayetteville township.
We're actually doing a fellowship
this Wednesday, a food Hangouts.
If you want to come be a part of
that, catch me after we'd love
for you to be a part of that.
But he talks about that.
We should X, X, X rotate,
and teach as well.
Not only just reading and for us to be
able to do this for me, to be able to
teach for us, to be able to teach others.
We have to be fed first.
So we have to grow in the word
before we can give back to others.
So he says this.
If we want to help people pursue
godliness, we need to prioritize the
word in our lives and in the church.
But then he moves on to verses 14
and 15, and he says, Timothy, don't
neglect the gift that is in you.
If you have given, it was given to
you through the prophecy and with the
laying on of hands by the council of
the elders, practice, these things
be committed to them so that your
progress may be evident to all.
So.
Paul says to Timothy,
don't neglect your gift.
Now he's not talking about like a gift
we get at our birthdays is this, I got
this gift at my birthday, so I didn't
neglect putting that gift on, but this
one's really no value spiritually.
He's talking about the gift
that God gives us as a believer.
So if you've given your life to
Christ, God has given you a gift.
Now here's the thing.
If you don't know what that
gift is, don't a feature.
Because many times we
have to grow to know it.
We have to study God's word and we have
to begin to seek out and begin to test
what is it that God has gifted me in.
But he's telling Timothy specifically
here don't neglect your gifts, which
Timothy would know what it was.
His gift was to teach his gift was
also to pastor and to shepherd.
And what we're thinking, because
if you know much about Timothy
and if you don't that's okay.
Timothy is known to be.
He tend to not be as bold in his faith.
And so what Paul was doing, and
he'll even do this in, I think
it's second Timothy as well.
He'll tell Timothy and second
Timothy fan into flame.
The gift that God has given you,
because Timothy was struggling to
use his gifts because sometimes using
our gifts makes us uncomfortable, but
uncomfortable, not like in a bad way,
but uncomfortable because we feel like
if we use our gifts, we're going to fell.
But what we realized is that God is the
one that empowers us to use that gift.
What are the gifts?
Do you guys know what,
let me ask this question.
What is the purpose of the
gifts that God gives us?
What does the purpose of the gifts?
Anybody?
What's the benefit of the gift that
we get to glorify God, what else?
To spread his word and
to benefit one another.
When we get gifts from God, there they're
meant to benefit the body of Christ.
And so these gifts, and here's the
thing I could list them out all day.
You'll hear things, the gift of prophecy,
the gift of teaching, the gift of
administration, the gift of serving.
And there's more and more and more.
And so if you want to know
more about that, cause I don't
have time to unpack all of it.
These things are found in first
Corinthians 12, Romans 12.
And Ephesians four.
And I'll say that again, first Corinthians
12, Romans 12 and Ephesians four.
And you can begin to study on that.
And then we've actually been talking
as a church that we may go through
these messages to talk more about
how we use the gift of God that's
inside of us so that each one of
us can know what our gifts are.
Um, but I still challenge you
not to just wait, because again,
Paul's telling Timothy your
gift is valuable to the church.
Don't neglect it.
Well, here's the thing.
If we're in this.
If you've given your life to Christ,
your gift is valuable to one of us in
this room and to the church that, you
know, outside of this church, right.
That gift needs to be
used for them as well.
And so for you discovering
it is so important.
So what can you do if you don't
fully know what your gift is, I'm
going to give you three things.
Number one is to pray.
And that sounds so like cliche.
Pastor's going to tell you.
Seriously, prayer is just talking to God.
Here's what we do in prayer.
Ask God to make you aware, but
God, what is it that you given me
a passion and desire a gifting?
What is it that you given me?
Lord reveal that to me.
Right?
And as you seek his
word, I believe he will.
Number two, learn by getting involved.
I'll tell you I was very great at this.
Whenever I gave my life to
Christ, I was this guy asking a
lot of questions about my faith.
And you know what God kept telling me,
not audibly, but as I studied his word
through prayer, he said, get involved.
Trust me just do this.
And so every step of my faith was
I got involved in student ministry.
I didn't like teenagers, but I was
gonna try it while I got in there
and actually realized, Hey, it was
pretty cool hanging around teenagers.
And then I grew in my faith because I got
opportunities to lead different things.
The first thing that led us, a
student student, like helping
a student leader was games at.
I didn't know what I was doing.
I just led some kind of crazy games and
gut God done and was like, what is that?
Well, that grew my faith.
So then I started leading
small groups in there.
Then I started leading
small groups for adults.
And then I started teaching on Wednesday
nights and then I started and it
just moved and moved to new because
I kept saying yes to the opportunity.
Now here's the thing.
Sometimes you're gonna say
yes to something and be
like, this is not my gift.
And that's okay.
But now, you know, one thing that
is not your gift, but if you sit on
the sidelines, Just reveal it to me.
So I know and go, God's going to say,
trust me, just take a step of faith.
So get involved, not only in the
church, I'll encourage you in that, but
also get involved in your community.
Get involved in your neighborhood,
get involved at your work,
start trying different things.
And the Lord will reveal you.
And I'll just challenge you in this.
Don't just try, what's
comfortable challenge yourself
because God empowers the gift.
Not you.
God does.
Here's the last one?
Get feedback.
I love this there's times.
I'll ask Brittany, like,
am I good at anything?
Like, am I doing anything worth valuable?
And she'll, she'll start building
me up because here's what she does.
My wife.
She says, Hey, here's
some things that made.
You're just, God has gifted you in
because I am not good at evaluating
myself with those around me are.
So ask a friend, ask your pastor.
You're going to ask me, I'd love
to tell you, um, ask your spouse.
What is it maybe that you see
in me that God could use me for.
And then as they begin to explain that,
begin to lean into it and try it right?
Try it.
Why do we do this for
the benefit of the body?
Because there is someone waiting on you.
There's someone don't miss this.
There's someone waiting on
you to fulfill your gift.
Someone was waiting on Timothy.
That's why Paul was writing Timothy.
Don't neglect your.
So here's the last one.
And I think this is a tool.
It's a spiritual gift test.
Many people have created these spiritual
gift tests for you to go out and take.
And again, so, you know, this is for
believers and cause if you're not a
believer, you'll be really looking
from a worldly standpoint at this, but
it's going to ask a ton of questions.
Then it's going to spit out some
results of here's some areas
where you're strong in gifting.
If you have questions
about that with like that.
Let me know I can send that to you.
It's free.
Um, it's pretty cool how it works.
I took it last night just to kind
of see where mine are and mine
pegged, like everything that I'm
doing right now, which is cool.
Um, but it would be something good
for you to, to take and guide you
as you're seeking the Lord in this.
Right.
So again, why is it important
to discover your gift?
Because there is someone waiting
on you to, to find that gift,
to begin, to live it out, to
influence others, to know Christ.
So when we make spiritual progress, it
helps others make spiritual progress.
I know this when I was growing in my
faith and somebody else has grown in their
faith, it encouraged me to know more.
So we're supposed to spur one another on.
It's really cool how that works.
And so Paul says in verse 15,
practice these things, what things,
reading the word, exhorting,
teaching, using your gifts.
He says, because if you practice
these things, they'll become
evident to other people.
So let's backtrack.
We build trust with people because
he was young in his faith, Timothy,
he built trust by using his gifts.
He built trust by setting the
example, this isn't trusting God,
like God's not looking and saying,
man, you're showing yourself faithful.
It's the people around you who say,
Hey, you claim to be a Christian, but
you're different because I hear people
talk about going to church on Sunday.
But you do more than that.
Like you live it out.
Like you truly care for me.
You, you truly want to pray for me.
You, you truly want me to know who God is.
You want to be generous to me.
What, like when you begin to now practice
these things, it now begins to influence
those around you to go, you know what?
I believe the God that you serve Israel.
I've heard other people say
something, but you're living it.
So when we use our gifts, When we
model what it is to know Christ,
we begin to change those around us.
Are I just give you an
encouragement with this?
We'll move on.
I remember preaching my first sermon.
I preached the two weeks
after a certain ministry.
I didn't know what I was surrendering to.
I knew I was turning into ministry, but I
didn't know it was the preach, but they.
Preach in two weeks.
And I didn't like public
speaking, but I did anyways,
because I wanna try something.
Right.
I remember preaching that message and
man, so many people after service man.
Great message.
As awesome.
Cool.
Okay, great.
The, one of the last messages I
preached before I left my church in
Oklahoma, I remember somebody coming
up to me and they said, man, you
have really grown in your teaching.
You are so much better.
And I went, wait, whoa, you
said I was good back then.
What, what it was is what
they were saying is I saw.
You mature in your faith.
I saw you not only start, start
there, but you grew, you begin
to train and pursue and grow.
And I see it's evident and they
were really boasting in me.
They were really, most of them were
boasting and what God did in me,
because I leaned into my gifts,
which my gifts are not based upon me
producing it based upon God producing.
That's the cool part guys.
When we lean into our gifts,
God has to do the work.
We don't have.
And it doesn't mean we don't train,
but we pursue God and God trains us up.
So I say that is, it becomes evident
not to boast in yourself, but to
really magnify Christ to other people.
So by pursuing our gifts that God
has given us, we will discover more
and more of what God has for us.
This side of heaven.
And your commitment will encourage
others to discover their own.
I mean, I think isn't that why we're here
as a church to inspire hope by helping
people discover God's purpose for their
life through relationship with Jesus.
That is why we are here.
So last thing here that Paul
is teaching Timothy in us.
As we can help people pursue godliness,
not only by preaching and prioritizing
the word in our lives and in the church
or by using our gifts, but also by
examining our lives by raise of hands.
How many y'all feel like you
don't have enough time in the
day to get everything done?
So who has time to examine?
Cause examining causes you to stop
everything you're doing and look at
what you are doing and say, is this
the most valuable thing that I'm doing?
We are very task driven people.
And so, you know, I relate with you.
I get it.
But when we know something is so
valuable, we start prioritizing.
To the hire list, hire
part of a list, right?
You all have that list.
So rather than making it the 12th
thing and you only get done with six,
make it the number one thing he says
to examine ourselves, this is what
he says, pay close attention to your
life and your teaching persevere,
these things for in doing so we'll say
both you and yourself and your hears.
If you know, you can save
someone's eternal life.
If, you know, you can
save your eternal life.
And what I mean by that is by knowing
God more, it's going to build you up.
If you know that like, don't, you
want to prioritize that as one of the
most important things in your life.
So what's the value in examining right?
Examining our lives allows us to look.
Allows us to, to see where we've
been going and to think, are we
truly portraying a life that honors
Christ are we truly prioritizing
the things that God has called us
to, are we truly using our gifts to
glorify God or only benefit ourselves?
So.
How do we examine ourselves?
Here's a couple of things for
you to take home, as you think
about how to examine yourself.
Number one is that you
can examine yourself.
I've got my one papers confused here.
You can examine yourself by
taking a spiritual inventory
that is worth these things.
As this is a personal thing
that I would just give you.
Number one, examine is my life.
What is my life reflecting?
So again, write that out.
Like, what is my life perfecting?
If you're a believer, is my life
reflecting Christ or does it reflect
that everything else in my life has.
Right.
So here, what do you wonder?
Look at your calendar.
Look at your bank account, right?
Look at what you do every day.
David.
It's an honor kind of look
at what you do every day.
Write it all out.
Is this honoring God?
Now here's the other thing.
This is going to be vulnerable.
Invite somebody in and
ask them, what is my wife?
Reflecting?
Just, just ask the question.
What is my life reflecting?
And if they're not saying it's
reflecting Christ, but they're saying,
Hey, it's reflecting a good person.
It's reflecting.
You're, you're great at
whatever you do at your job.
Maybe we need to think, oh
man, I'm not reflecting Christ.
So we evaluate, we examine number
one, examine the truth you are
living and telling others about God.
Here's the question is what
you're telling other people
aligning with God or the world.
Are you telling people to just be better
people or are you telling people to
know Christ to become more Christ-like
which makes them a better person?
Like what are we telling people?
Evaluate that against God's word.
Examine, whether you have discovered
your gift and are using it for the
benefit of other believers, because if
you haven't, then you're examining that.
I need to discover that if you
have discovered it, am I not using
it like Timothy wasn't and the
last thing he says here, those are
so that's the way to examine it.
The last thing he says is to
persevere in these things.
So to persevere means to be
consistent, keep going, don't give up.
So finish well, right?
Pulse is the persevere in
these things and examining
ourselves and making adjustments.
Here's the challenge.
I think I could be wrong with this.
I think many of us take some time to
examine ourselves and we examine ourselves
and we find out we don't like where we
are and maybe not every area of our lives,
but there's some areas of our lives.
We truly don't like where we are.
So we feel convicted about it.
We want to make a change.
We even know some of the changes we
need to make, but we never set a date.
And we never asked somebody to
invite somebody into hold us
accountable to take that next step.
So what do we do?
We ignore it.
We don't make changes.
We move forward.
We get frustrated again.
We examine our life.
We realize where we messed up
and we need to make changes.
We know what changes we need to
make, but we don't ever set a date.
We don't ever invite somebody in to help
us take that next step and all account.
Here's what Paul's saying, examine and
apply, examine, and apply whatever God is
revealing to you as you examine your life.
Why, why is it important for us to
examine ourselves and make adjustments?
Because the mission is more important.
He says this, if we do this, we'll say
both ourselves and our hears, we are not
here as followers of Christ to just exist.
We are here to know God and to
continue to grow towards him.
And sometimes that's a Rocky path,
even for a pastor I'm with you.
I get it.
But in that Rocky path, we're considering
continually examine ourselves.
And we're adding, adding and taking away
things that are not valuable, right?
We're adding things that are valuable.
We're taking away things that are not
valuable so that we can know Christ more
than we can reflect him, but it's also
the ability to influence other people.
And so to be saved and help
other, be others be saved.
We know that we have not only
accepted the mercy and grace of Jesus
every day by using our gifts right.
And applying these things, but
we can help other people discover
their purpose through relationships.
I don't know what you
need to be motivated.
Paul, if you study any of his
letters, Paul was motivated
by the people he was serving.
He was willing to sacrifice everything,
to serve the people around him, because he
knew that he had already accepted Christ.
He knew where his Aternity
stood in the future and what
his life entailed that day.
His biggest concern until
the day of his last.
Was who else needs to
know the truth of Jesus?
So whether you like it or not, as
we kind of close today every day
that God gives you to live, you are
setting an example for those around
you, positively or negatively.
Again, we're leaders in our home
we're leaders around our spouse or
our coworkers or other believers.
You are, you can't walk out of here,
not knowing that you are a leader.
And so as Paul speaking to Timothy,
he speaking directly to us.
So we need to answer this one question.
What example am I setting
to those around me?
That's the challenge today, as we go
into invitation invitations, always an
opportunity to consider where we are.
Here's the cool part.
The last thing that Paul challenges
to do is to consider or reflect
right about where our lives are.
So what example are we setting around us?
So as we think through that,
I'm going to give you guys some
questions to pose to yourself.
Am I setting an example in speech,
in conduct, in love, in faith and
impurity, that models after Christ.
If you're not, here's the great thing
God's not sitting here and this mean,
God, that's just so disappointed.
You, you know what God's saying?
Hey, you know, now, now you know,
you're not, or maybe you are, and you're
praising God for it, but if you're not,
you know what God says, Hey, come on.
Just open your heart and say, Lord,
I need help to be better in my speech
to match that with my conduct, to be
better in love and to show my faith and
to be better impurity, not because that
justifies you to the Lord because your
justifications in Jesus Christ alone,
but so that you can know God more and so
that you can help other people no gun.
Right.
So here's the other one, right?
You can ask this, do I truly
desire to help myself and
others make spiritual progress?
Do I truly desire to help myself
and others make spiritual progress?
If you were one of the people last
week, or maybe even today in your
heart, you said, I want to help
other people make spiritual progress.
If that was you truthfully
saying that what in your life is
modeling that and reflecting that.
So if you don't know,
if you feel like you're.
Seek the Lord ask the Lord,
what is it is the next step?
Invite somebody into that, tell
them I need help taking my next
step and what it means to help other
people know Chrysler to even myself.
Right?
Here's here's another one.
How have I discovered my gifts
or gifts that God has given me?
And am I using it for the benefit of.
If you're not, and you haven't discovered
it, you can take a next step, ask the
Lord, help me know what that next step is.
Here's the last question that maybe
many of you in this room need to ask?
I don't know.
And you only know this, you and the Lord.
Maybe you need to ask the Lord.
Do I truly know you have, I
truly surrender my life to you.
Have I given my life to you?
Do I even know what it means to
be saved and to give my life to
Jesus and to follow after him?
And if that's you today
and you don't know.
God, doesn't put all these stipulations
that you meet, all these things.
Here's what he's saying.
Come to me, all you who are weary and
burdened and I will give you rest.
Jesus is here every day to
receive a relationship with you.
That's the number one thing I don't want
you to miss today because you can walk
out of here feeling burdened by web thing
I share today, today is not a burden.
It's an opportunity I'm telling you.
It's an opportunity to be used by God,
but to be used by God, you got it.
So today you haven't
given your life to Christ.
Today's the day, today's the day.
How do you do that by recognizing your
need turning from your sins, which means
this a life that is not God's best and
accepting what God has given us, grace
and mercy and forgiveness and opportunity
to be a part of a bigger picture to
change the world one person at a time.
So if you have questions about.
I'm always here.
I'm going to be in the
bacteria invitation.
You can come talk to me if that's
not comfortable to you, I'm going
to be at the next steps table.
Come over and to say,
Hey, I have questions.
I don't want this to be awkward.
I want this to be an opportunity
for you to know Jesus.
So please come talk to me.
If you need prayer, come talk to me.
But whatever you do during this
time of invitation, I challenge
you to take a next step.
Every believer is called
to a greater task.
Again, not to justify themselves before
the Lord, but to honor the Lord and to
show your commitment to his desire for
everyone to come to know him and be saved.
Let's examine ourselves during
this time of invitation and
move how God calls us to move.
Amen.
Let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We thank you Lord for today.
We thank you for your word.
We thank you for worship.
We thank you for just the
opportunity Lord, for each
one of us to be in this room.
Lord, we don't take it for granted
because Lord there's, there's a lot
of people not in this room and it's
not because we're sitting here saying,
oh man, Lord, we're judging them.
Really?
We're just saying we're here because Lord
you've aligned everything to be here.
Every one of us, there could have been
something else that we chose to do.
But today, Lord, you chose to open the
door, maybe through a simple invite
to open the door, to not push news on
the alarm clock Lord, but you drew us
here to be a part of today's gathering.
So that means Lord, that
your word was spoke.
Your word was exhorted and taught.
And you said, Lord,
that it will not return.
I said today, that's what we're praying
and believing that the word was spoke that
is received into our hearts and lives.
And that each one of us, each one of us,
including myself, will respond to it.
Lord, I pray if there's someone in
this room that is struggling to take
that next step, Lord, give them that
confidence to take that next step.
Or if there's someone that
doesn't know you, Lord pray.
I pray that you give them the
confidence to take the next step, to
say that they need you, and that they
want to know what it's like to have.
Or move in the hearts and lives of every
person in this room, because we know Lord
that you desire for them to know you more.
So Lord, thank you for this time.
We love you and we pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.